[Serve][Doc] Autoscaling (#25646)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/autoscaling.md

(serve-autoscaling)=

# Serve Autoscaling

This section should help you:

- Understand how Ray Serve autoscaling works

> - Understand config parameter usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Learn how to configure the parameters for your workload
```

> - Understand how Ray Serve autoscaling works
> - Learn how to configure the parameters for your workload

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Understand how Ray Serve autoscaling works.
- Learn how to configure the parameters for your workload.
```

## Autoscaling architecture

> Ray Serve autoscaling feature automatically increases or decreases the number of replicas based on the load. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Ray Serve's autoscaling feature automatically increases or decreases a deployment's number of replicas based on its load. 
```

> Ray Serve autoscaling is to increase and decrease the number of replicas based on the load, and ray serve provide a couple of config parameters to meet the different workload use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray Serve autoscaling feature automatically increases or decreases the number of replicas based on the load. 
```

> ![pic](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ray-project/images/master/docs/serve/autoscaling.svg)

Reviewer 3: Nice diagram! This will be very helpful when explaining how Ray Serve's autoscaling works.

<img width="854" alt="Screen Shot 2022-06-13 at 3 55 22 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/92341594/173460751-b2d155c4-aff6-4fc7-b132-b5b6799dd6aa.png">

A few suggestions:

1. Can we rename the "node" in the controller to "Ray Head Node"? And similarly, can we name the other nodes to "Ray Worker Node? This is mainly to distinguish between Ray nodes (which are actual machines) and Serve deployment nodes (which are used in deployment graphs).

2. In each Ray node, we have two "worker replica" rectangles. The left rectangle has no outline, but the right rectangle has an outline. Can we remove the outlines on the right rectangles for consistency?

<img width="277" alt="Screen Shot 2022-06-13 at 3 59 33 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/92341594/173461345-bb4a8b9f-d0e7-44f1-a251-c5de8fca14c8.png">

3. There's a typo in "contoller." It should be "controller."

4. There's a black diagonal "notch" under the controller node. Can we remove it? Can we also move the word "node" in that rectangle, so it doesn't overlap with the arrow?

<img width="300" alt="Screen Shot 2022-06-13 at 4 03 02 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/92341594/173461599-eaa6222d-1024-4e19-96a1-13e57efdb617.png">

5. Can we make the legend left-aligned?

6. The yellow arrow is a bit tough to see. Could we change it (and the corresponding worker replica) to a slightly darker color?

7. To maintain consistency with the rest of the docs, could we change "client (deployment handle)" to "[deployment's `ServeHandle`](https://docs.ray.io/en/releases-1.13.0/serve/http-servehandle.html#servehandle-calling-deployments-from-python)?"

8. Could we add a section to the diagram explaining how HTTP requests fit into this? We could add one more box to the right of the diagram representing an HTTP request, and we could draw an arrow from it to one of the `ServeHandles`.

> - Deployment handle(Client) and worker replica periodically push the stats to the autoscaler.

Reviewer: ServeHandle (link) and deployment replicas (link to managing deployments num_replicas for now, architecture later) periodically push their queuing metrics to the Serve autoscaler.

Reviewer 2: We need to make sure our terminology is consistent with the rest of the documentation. Users won't understand what "Deployment handle(Client)" means. Would suggest something like "Each replica with a handle to another deployment periodically pushes stats to the controller."

> - Autoscaler requires serve handle queue metrics and replicas requests metrics to make decision whether to scale (up or down) the replicas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The autoscaler requires serve handle queue metrics and replicas requests metrics to make decision whether to scale (up or down) the replicas.
```

> - Autoscaler requires serve handle queue metrics and replicas requests metrics to make decision whether to scale (up or down) the replicas.

Reviewer: Autoscaler uses the ... to make decisions

> - Deployment Handle(Client) keeps polling the replica stats from controller to get the updated replicas information. Serve Handle(Client) will send requests directly to the replica based on the replicas information (Round Robin).

Reviewer 3: Let's keep the capitalization and spacing of `ServeHandle` consistent. [The documentation that introduces `ServeHandles`](https://docs.ray.io/en/releases-1.13.0/serve/http-servehandle.html#servehandle-calling-deployments-from-python) uses PascalCase. I suggest we stick with that, but I'm okay with using another format as long as we're consistent.

> - Deployment Handle(Client) keeps polling the replica stats from controller to get the updated replicas information. Serve Handle(Client) will send requests directly to the replica based on the replicas information (Round Robin).

Reviewer: ServeHandle (link) continues to poll the updated group of replicas from the controller. Upon discovery of the new replicas, it will send any buffered or new requests to the replica until `max_concurrent_queries` is reached (LINK).

:::{note}

> When the controller dies, the client is still able to send requests, but autoscaling will not work.

Reviewer: autoscaling will pause to work, when controller recovers, autoscaling will start afresh. All the previous metrics collected will be lost.

:::

> ## Autoscaling parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Autoscaling parameters
There are several parameters the autoscaling algorithm takes into consideration when deciding the target replicas for your deployment
```

> When the controller dies, the client is still able to send requests, but autoscaling will pause to work. When the controller recovers, the autoscaling will start working, all previous metrics collected will be lost.

Reviewer 3: In general, we can address the user directly in the docs. For instance, instead of saying "the client is still able to send requests...," we can say "you can still send requests to your deployments..." The [`ServeHandle` documentation](https://docs.ray.io/en/releases-1.13.0/serve/http-servehandle.html#servehandle-calling-deployments-from-python) is a good example for this.

> **min_replicas**: The minimal number of replicas for the deployment, the min_replicas will be initial number replicas when the deployment is deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**min_replicas**: The minimal number of replicas for the deployment, the min_replicas will also be the initial number replicas when the deployment is deployed.
```

**min_replicas**: The minimal number of replicas for the deployment, the min_replicas will also be the initial number replicas when the deployment is deployed.
:::{note}
Ray Serve Autoscaling allows the `min_replicas` to be 0 to start your deployment, the scale up will be started when you start sending traffic. There will be cold start time during the period, ray serve handle will wait (block) for available replicas to assign the request.
:::
**max_replicas**: Max replicas is the maximum number of replicas for the deployment. Ray Serve Autoscaling will rely on the Ray Autoscaler to scale up more nodes when the resource is not enough to bring up more replicas. 

> **target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica**: The config is to maintain how many ongoing requests concurrently running per replica at most. If the number is lower, the scale up will be done more aggressively.

Reviewer 3: Does `target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica` set a hard limit on the number of requests a deployment can handle at a certain number of replicas, until a scale-up happens? The phrasing of "at most" makes it seem like that's the case.

Author: Actually, it is more about the replica view. 
For deployment perspective: 
the number of requests = (running requests + pending requests) * num of replicas.

Reviewer 4: I second Shreyas's concern, is `target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica` an upper bound?  From what I remember it's just a target (the true value might be higher or lower), so "at most" might be a little misleading.

Author: I see the point, let me rephrase. Thank you!

> **target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica**: The config is to maintain how many ongoing requests are expected to run concurrently per replica at most. If the number is lower, the scale up will be done more aggressively.

Reviewer 3: Nice change! Since this value isn't a hard limit, could we mention that at the end of the description? We could add a sentence saying "Note that this value isn't a hard limit. Under x, y, z circumstances, there could be more ongoing requests per replica than this value."

- Internally, the autoscaler will compare RUNNING + PENNING tasks of each replicas and `target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica` to decide scale up/down.
- `target_num_ongoing_requests_per_replica` is only a target value used for autoscaling (not a hard limit), the real ongoing requests number can be higher than the config.
:::
**downscale_delay_s**: The config is to control how long the cluster needs to wait before scaling down replicas.
`upscale_delay_s`: The config is to control how long the cluster need to wait before scaling up replicas.
:::{note}
`downscale_delay_s` and `upscale_delay_s` are to control the frequency of doing autoscaling work. E.g. if your use case takes a long time to do initialization work, you can increase `downscale_delay_s` to make the down scaling happen slowly.
:::
**smoothing_factor**: The multiplicative factor to speedup/slowdown each autoscaling step. E.g. When the use case has high large traffic volume in short period of time, you can increase `smoothing_factor` to scale up the resource quickly.

> **metrics_interval_s**: This is control how often each replica sends metrics to the autoscaler. (Normally you don't need to change this config.)

Reviewer: add default value to all these parameters.
